HSEARCH-2192 Highlighting in the Search API / HSEARCH-4815 Better message for FVH being not supported on fields without term vectors / HSEARCH-4822 Extend @FullTextField with `highlightable` configuration (#3418)
hibernate/hibernate-search: documentation/src/main/asciidoc/reference/search-dsl-projection.asciidoc

The <<mapping-directfieldmapping-highlightable,highlightable>> default already can enable the support of highlighting
in some cases. For more details see <<mapping-directfieldmapping-highlightable-default, how the `DEFAULT` highlightable value behaves>>.
====

[[search-dsl-projection-highlight-syntax]]
=== Syntax

The `highlight` projection always returns a list of string values per highlighted field, no matter if the field is
a single or a multivalued one:

.Returning highlights for matched documents
====
[source, JAVA, indent=0, subs="+callouts"]
----
include::{sourcedir}/org/hibernate/search/documentation/search/projection/ProjectionDslIT.java[tags=highlight]
----
====

[[search-dsl-projection-highlight-multivalued]]
=== Multivalued fields

Each value of a multivalued field is being highlighted. See <<search-dsl-highlighting-highlighter-options, how highlighter can be configured>>
to adjust the returned results' behaviour and structure.

[IMPORTANT]
====
At this moment, highlights on fields of nested objects is not supported, however, they can work on fields of nested objects

> with <<mapping-indexedembedded-structure-flattened,flattened structure>>.

Author: mm yeah .. so if we have `ObjectStructure.NESTED`, things go badly for the highlighting... the query we get is some version of  `ToParentBlockJoinQuery`, and highlighters have no idea what to do about it (a more detailed example from our chat - https://hibernate.zulipchat.com/#narrow/stream/132092-hibernate-search-dev/topic/HSEARCH-2192.20Highlighting/near/345345408) which results in an empty highlight list. Same thing for ES - just an empty list. So it really works fine only with `ObjectStructure.FLATTENED`.

> At this moment, highlights on fields of nested objects is not supported, however, they can work on fields of nested objects
> with <<mapping-indexedembedded-structure-flattened,flattened structure>>.

Reviewer: Ah, that's... underwhelming. Do we have an issue (improvement) about this? Because we need one.

Anyway, in that case:

```suggestion
At the moment, highlighting a field within a <<mapping-indexedembedded-structure-nested,nested object>> is link:TODO_LINK_TO_JIRA_ISSUE[not supported] and attempting to do so will lead to an exception.

 Highlighting a field within a <<mapping-indexedembedded-structure-flattened,flattened object>> will work correctly.
```

> with <<mapping-indexedembedded-structure-flattened,flattened structure>>.

Reviewer: This behavior is not really what I had in mind though, I was more expecting nesting to be ignored:

> > Alright, would it be simpler to ignore nesting in both backends and just act like you currently do on Elasticsearch?
> 
> Basically we'd forbid using .highlight in a nested context (see [HSEARCH-4827](https://hibernate.atlassian.net/browse/HSEARCH-4827)), and highlighting would always apply to all nested objects

If even that doesn't work, you should probably enforce stricter checks. Like throwing an exception in `org.hibernate.search.backend.lucene.search.projection.impl.LuceneFieldHighlightProjection.Factory#create` if  `field.nestedDocumentPath() != null` (and same for Elasticsearch).

> with <<mapping-indexedembedded-structure-flattened,flattened structure>>.

Author: ok, will do! 😃 
To support either this case or the `object()` one, we'd still most likely need to work with Elasticsearch's `inner_hits.highlight` . And with Lucene.... it is the problem with queries in both scenarios, so I assume if we get one to work - the other will work too. Here's the jira - HSEARCH-4841
